REPORTER: There may be no more
dangerous job in the world
these days than being an
undercover agent for the United
States Drug Enforcement
Administration, the DEA,
the federal agency which is at
war with ruthless drug dealers
around the world.
Tonight, one of those
undercover agents is missing.
Apparently, the victim
of drug vengeance.
REPORTER: Enrique Camarena
was reportedly
kidnapped by four armed
men in Guadalajara, Mexico.
The hostages' whereabouts
and condition unknown.
REPORTER: Camarena left the
US consulate on February 7,
intending to meet
his wife for lunch,
and was apparently abducted
less than a half a block away.
A small army of
Mexican Federal
Police and American drug agents
are searching for Camarena.
But so far they
have found nothing.
REPORTER: US inspectors are
making a thorough search
of more than half the cars
crossing into this country
along the entire Mexican border
from San Ysidro, California,
to Brownsville, Texas.
REPORTER: Motorists at the
busiest border crossing
at San Ysidro, near
San Diego, have
had to wait up to nine hours.
REPORTER: Although the
White House denies it,
reliable sources tell NBC News
President Reagan has spoken
to Mexican president
De La Madrid
about the case of
Enrique Camarena.
ABC News has learned that
Camarena had uncovered evidence
indicating that high
Mexican law enforcement
agents were involved
with the drug smugglers.
I've had this little
thorn in my heart
knowing the truth about what
really happened to Kiki.
The US intelligence officials
ordered the kidnapping and
interrogation of Kiki Camarena.
The Camarena case is still
being covered up to this day.
And I want the world
to know the truth.
It's time.
And if I die doing it, well,
that's what God wanted.
PRESIDENT NIXON: We must wage
what I have called total war
against public enemy number
one in the United States,
problem of dangerous drugs.
NARRATOR: In 1973,
President Nixon
created the Drug Enforcement
Administration to fight
America's new war on drugs.
The DEA used undercover
narcotics agents,
known as narcs, to bust
traffickers in the US
and around the world.
In 1980, the drug war
expanded to Mexico,
where a group of
marijuana growers
had relocated from the
mountains of Sinaloa
to the city of
Guadalajara to forge
Mexico's first drug cartel.
Rafael Caro Quintero,
Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo,
and Miguel Felix Gallardo,
became the most
powerful drug lords of the era.
In 1985, they conspired
to kidnap, torture,
and murder DEA
Agent Kiki Camarena,
resulting in their downfall.
The disintegration of
the Guadalajara cartel
plunged Mexico into
violence and led to the rise
of Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman.
Since then, more than
125,000 people have
died in Mexico's cartel wars.
But to this day, Camarena's
murder looms above them all.
For 35 years, the truth
behind his killing
has remained a
closely guarded secret
at the highest
levels of government
in Mexico and the US.
This is the story of the
man who was murdered,
the men who killed
him, and the one
man who risked everything to
find out what really happened
and why.
When my mom was like 16,
she got pregnant with me.
And my grandmother, who
was a very strict Catholic,
said, you got to
leave the house.
So my mom went
and became friends
with these ladies that were
like gypsies that told fortunes.
They took her in and
they said, listen,
you know, you learn this trade,
and you'll always have money.
Your present, your past,
and your future.
Present, past, and future.
That's the way she
supported herself
when she was pregnant with me.
She married my dad,
who lived in Mexico.
Before I was born, they
migrated to the United States,
and I was the oldest
of six brothers.
You are going to be happy,
because you feel that some force
is protecting you.
You will always care
for your family.
We grew up in South
Tucson, Arizona, which
is mainly a Hispanic community.
All of my Anglo friends
spoke Spanglish,
half English half Spanish.
So I grew up speaking
both languages.
You are going to receive
a letter or some news
about the death
of someone you know,
someone you care about.
It will bring you sadness,
and you will have to
fight for your life.
Once I did my time in the US
military during the Vietnam War
and reported home, my
dad had broken his back,
and he wasn't working, so
there was no money coming in.
So I started looking
at the unemployment
section of the
newspaper, and there was
openings for police officers.
And the last thing I wanted to
be growing up was a policeman.
But then I found out
that my little brother,
who was 12 years old,
was hooked on heroin.
The only time that
I saw my dad cry--
when he would see his son
be dragged in by the US
Marshals in chains.
And I remember the tears
rolling down my dad's face.
And it hurt me dearly
because I adored my father.
And I would grab him and
say, Dad, don't worry.
I'm going to do
something about this.
These guys are going to pay
that addict people like this.
I'm going to arrest
every drug dealer I can.
♪ It's just like heaven
being here with you ♪
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, oh boy!
♪ Angel baby,
my angel baby ♪
♪ When you are near me ♪
Kiki was born in Mexico,
and he immigrated with his
family at the age of 9.
Then he started school
in the US at Calexico.
And that's where we
wound up meeting.
A lot of the families traveled
north to work in the crops.
In the summer of our sophomore
year, we made eye contact.
We were 14.
Kiki and I graduated in 1966.
At 18, Kiki had a vision
of what he wanted to do.
He wanted to marry me
and be an FBI agent.
I thought, how could you
possibly at this age already
be so serious about
what you want?
Then Kiki was drafted to the
Army, but he chose the Marines.
Kiki always felt that
the Marines were tougher.
He always wanted to
do the right thing.
And being in law enforcement
was part of that.
♪ Please never leave me ♪
♪ Blue and alone ♪
♪ If you ever go ♪
♪ I'm sure
you'll come back home ♪
♪ Because I love you... ♪
HECTOR BERRELLEZ:
I really liked being a cop.
And I stepped up
to the state police
as a uniformed
highway patrolman.
♪ I see the bad moon rising ♪
♪ I see trouble... ♪
They would use me
to do undercover buys
because I spoke Spanish.
One day I was writing tickets,
the next day I'm undercover.
I liked it. But it
was very, very dangerous.
I'm surprised I didn't
run into somebody
that I had given a ticket to
like two or three days before.
♪ Don't go around tonight ♪
♪ Well, it's bound
to take your life ♪
I looked like a cop.
Very young. I had short hair.
So I felt uncomfortable
going with the informants,
and meeting these Mexican drug
dealers, and they look at me
and says, are you
sure you're not a cop?
"Man, I don't even
have papers."
"I don't even have green papers.
I'm here illegally."
I became an adrenaline junkie.
I liked the rush
that you got.
You are afraid you might
get shot or killed,
but then you're saying,
I can fool this guy.
♪ There's a bad
moon on the rise ♪
When I was making buys
for the state police,
an informant came in and
said that he had met a very
big heroin dealer
from Sinaloa.
So they said, go in there, buy
an ounce of heroin for $10,000,
and pay him.
So I walk in, and
of course, I can't
act like I'm experienced
with this guy,
because this guy is
a big drug dealer.
He was very well dressed,
a lot of jewelry,
about 50 years old,
and I tell him--
"Look, my mom
is in very bad shape.
She is very sick,
she has cancer.
And I know nothing
about this business.
I know nothing about heroin."
And he says,
"This is amazing heroin,
comes directly from the lab."
And I said,
"Please, please."
"Because if I take them
something that's been cut...
They'll kill me."
And he says,
"Calm down, calm down, kid.
This is pure heroin."
And he puts down
an ounce of heroin.
"Did you bring the money?"
So I had $10,000
of marked bills.
And I gave him
the $10,000.
"Take it.
And I have a gift for you."
And he handed me
this bag, plastic bag,
full of white powder.
"It's pure cocaine."
"Is it cocaine?"
"Yes."
I'm acting dumb, naive.
"Thank you."
"Listen, sell this cocaine
and pay your mom's
medical bills."
It's a gift from me to you.
I like you, dude, and by the
way, get out of this business.
You don't belong
in this business.
You're too young
and too naive
and too nice of a guy
to be involved in this shit.
I don't want to see you again,
but we're going do this deal.
So I go outside, open the trunk,
and here comes the cavalry,
and they go in and
arrest everybody.
We had like a SWAT
team out there.
And as they're walking him out
of the hotel in handcuffs--
"You're really good, kid."
And I says,
"Oh well, thank you."
Later that night,
everybody goes to a bar
to celebrate the arrest.
It wasn't my case.
The case agent was another
agent, didn't speak Spanish,
and everybody's going to
him and congratulating him.
Hey, that was a great case.
And his boss tells him,
hey, I want to put you
in for an award on this case.
I'm sitting over here,
drinking a beer by myself.
And I said, "What about me?"
"What about you?"
I said, "Well, you
know, I think I did
a pretty good job undercover.
Didn't I?"
And they said,
"Man, even a monkey can
buy dope
if you give him money."
And I felt very
small after that.
I felt very hurt.
However, though,
the DEA was there.
And the supervisor pulled
me aside, "Why don't
you come over, work for us?"
These are state police.
And I said, OK, I'd love to.
I was born...
in Cordoba city,
state of Veracruz, Mexico,
at 9:35 AM in 1961,
on July 31st.
In 1975, I left my house
and asked for a ride
to the United States
with the hope
of being someone in life.
An honest, fair person.
I believed in
the justice of the U.S.,
in the good ones.
I believed in America.
My hope was to join
the U.S. Army.
The Army didn't admit me,
they rejected me.
I left the U.S. disappointed.
When I went back to Guadalajara,
I joined the state police,
to do justice.
To do justice for...
all the innocent people.
When I joined the police,
I was a very honest man.
On one occasion my partner
and I were on patrol...
We stopped to eat some tacos.
Typical Mexican street tacos.
We saw two guys standing there.
And I spotted that one of them
was carrying a handgun.
He tried to reach for his gun,
but I told him, "Don't do it
or you'll die here.
Hands up."
And I took his gun.
I open the trunk
and find
three kilos of cocaine.
And you know when guys
like that are connected.
And believe me, I never
wanted to mess with Narcos.
Because I knew better.
INTERVIEWER: Why do you want
to tell your story?
Why do you think
it's important?
I feel I have to do it.
To ask humanity for
some kind of forgiveness,
apologize, for all the harm
I personally did.
These are real facts that
my enemies want to destroy,
but they can't,
unless they kill me first.
That's why I tell my story.
BERRELLEZ:
Southern Arizona
was a good place
to start my career as a narc.
We would go from
the United States
into Mexico all the time,
pursuing drug dealers
and pursuing drug
investigations.
It gave me a taste of how
things worked in Mexico.
It's like a different planet.
They work another set of rules.
There's no Miranda
Rights down there.
There was an occasion
where the Comandante
Juan Tapia calls me--
Mexico.
Hector, he says, we
just arrested two
gringos with
a stolen airplane.
I need you to come over
here and translate for me.
So I get there.
And one of them right away
says if
that comandante thinks
that I'm going
to tell him anything
about the plane, he's loco.
I want my lawyer, and I
want my lawyer right now.
He was about this tall,
little, short, fat guy.
And I says, "Comandante,
he says, no."
"I already know what he said."
"Bring him his lawyer.
Bring the 'chicharra'
to this bastard.
He wants his lawyer."
Well, they grab him,
start tearing his shirt off,
and take his pants off.
He's standing there naked, and
his friend's watching this.
So they bring this cattle prod.
It's got 18 batteries on it.
He says,
"This is your lawyer.
Bend him over."
So they just start giving
him electrical shocks.
You can see the sparks
fly off of his testicles.
"Tell the comandante
that I'm ready to talk."
"Tell him, I don't
want to talk to him."
"Tell him to sit
down and shut up."
Now his friend, "Are you
going to tell me now
"where you stole the
plane and everything,
or you want a lawyer too?"
He says, "No, sir, I'm fine.
I don't need a lawyer."
This is one of my very
first cases there.
So I'm learning
that this is normal.
They do that every time
they pick up somebody.
After that, of course,
it became common practice.
All the waterboarding,
the beatings,
the cattle prods,
and all that stuff.
That's exactly how they
worked cases back in the '70s
and '80s, back then in Mexico.
MIKA CAMARENA: When Kiki
first got to Guadalajara,
he went to scout,
and he could not wait
to get a case started.
He was not a desk person.
He put all his soul and
mind into working undercover.
He loved the action,
and so that was a worry to me.
I knew that he was not
going to let go until he
accomplished what he wanted.
JAIME KUYKENDALL:
I was the agent
in charge of
the office there.
Enforcement actions were
not our primary purpose.
Our job was to identify
traffickers and trafficking
patterns, because we
were not authorized
to take enforcement actions.
Kiki was dedicated
to his job,
and he was good
at developing informants,
at guiding informants,
and using that
information to find out what
the traffickers were doing,
both in Mexico
and in the United States.
So we were just
working on the major
growing
and smuggling groups,
using Guadalajara
as a trampoline
into the United States.
The traffickers
lived and operated
in Guadalajara with impunity.
Nobody bothered them.
It was their city.
They owned businesses,
hotels, restaurants.
They traveled in luxury cars,
convoys at times, armed.
They all had some sort
of an official credential
issued by either
the federal government
or the state government.
They all had
bodyguards, and we lived
in and around where they lived.
They knew us and
had made threats
against some of the
agents in the office
and against the
office in general.
MIKA: One time,
I had gone to the market.
And I see a car behind
me that's not passing me.
And so that made me
suspicious, because in Mexico,
nobody drives behind you.
And then, all of a sudden,
he started to pass me.
He went right along
the side of my car,
and they just stared at
us, didn't say a word.
That means,
we know who you are.
My job as lead prosecutor
in the Camarena case
is hands down the hardest thing
I've ever done professionally.
The drug cartel put
a contract on my life.
I had 24-hour US
Marshal protection.
I carried a firearm,
a Smith & Wesson
357 Magnum revolver with a 2
and 1/2 inch barrel, for years.
In the 1980s, it was
the wild, wild west,
when it came to
the drug cartels.
The most powerful,
the wealthiest,
the most violent
cartel in the world
was based out of
Guadalajara, Mexico.
It consisted of killers, drug
dealers, corrupt Mexican cops,
politicians on the take.
It was a multi-headed hydra,
and it saw itself as invincible.
The Guadalajara
Mexican cartel was
run by three very,
very powerful, violent,
and wealthy individuals--
Rafael Caro Quintero,
Miguel Angel Felix Gallardo,
and Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo.
They ran the show.
They called the shots.
I was in the Metropolitan
Homicide unit
in the city of Guadalajara,
in Jalisco,
when we heard on the radio,
"All units
proceed with caution
to the American Motors Hotel."
When we arrived at the hotel,
I saw our commander
with another person,
with Miguel Angel
Felix Gallardo.
When we entered the room we saw
that blood
was splattered everywhere.
It smelled like shit.
It smelled terrible,
because a body was dismembered.
You couldn't tell
if it was male or female.
There were legs, head, arms,
all dismembered.
And there were two guys
sitting there, young guys.
One I recognized as
"El Chapo" Guzman.
He and his partner
had committed the murder
and dismemberment.
They were both
laughing with impunity,
and they were high on drugs.
And Miguel Angel
Felix Gallardo was
pointing his gun
at the commander.
And I was pointing my AR-15
at fucking Chapo Guzman,
I had him on his knees,
ready to put
the handcuffs on him.
El Chapo's shirt was stained
with blood,
he had blood stains on his face
and his hair.
But then we got a call
on the walkie-talkie,
by the police radio, ordering us
to leave it alone,
and make no arrests.
And then my boss yelled at me,
my supervisor, Mr. Lira,
"Leave him and go."
I said, "How can I
let him go, bastard,
aren't you seeing what he did?
He dismembered
that poor bastard."
That's where that story ended,
because we were ordered
not to investigate,
we were told to abandon it.
We didn't even file a report.
That was the first time
I had to release "El Chapo."
I had to eat my own balls!
Me as a state police officer.
What was left of the corpse
wasn't even
taken to the morgue,
they went to throw it,
where they had their
clandestine graveyard,
which was located
at the Primavera forest,
near El Palomar.
That was one of
the first cases I had
where one feels
a terrible, unspeakable thing.
I'd never seen a person
dismembered like that.
I've never been able to erase
that image from my mind,
nor will I ever.
BERRELLEZ:
When I was transferred
to LA for the first time,
in 1982, LA was a hotbed.
You had the Colombians
doing all the big cocaine,
the Mexicans bringing in the
marijuana and the heroin.
And there was so much
dope that I thought,
I'm going to be able
to make some
nice, big seizures here,
make a name for myself.
♪ You see it in the headlines ♪
♪ You hear it every day ♪
♪ They say they're
going to stop it ♪
♪ But it doesn't go away ♪
BERRELLEZ: It was
the era of rock and roll
in law enforcement, where
they would give us money,
and we'd drink in bars, and
you all have informants.
It was very loose.
♪ It's propping
up the governments ♪
♪ In Colombia and Peru ♪
♪ You ask any DEA man ♪
♪ He'll say,
there's nothing we can do ♪
When you go undercover,
you start with little roles.
You start first by just
being somebody's bodyguard.
You listen, and you learn.
Also, when you have
your informant,
you ask him, how do
these guys dress?
You want to emulate them.
♪ There's lots
of shady characters ♪
♪ Lots of dirty deals ♪
BERRELLEZ: Manny was my
undercover Chicago character.
He dressed real cowboy-ish,
cowboy hat, long hair,
always in designer jeans,
exotic boots, the flashy belts.
Manny would get out
of control sometimes.
I mean, he'd take
no shit from nobody.
He'd put a gun in
somebody's face real quick.
♪ It's the Smuggler's Blues ♪
INTERVIEWER: How often does
the line get blurry then?
BERRELLEZ:
It got blurry at times
when you forgot who you were.
Because a lot of time, when
you're running with these guys,
you forget you're a cop.
You're having a great time.
I actually got to like
some of these crooks
more than I liked
some of the guys
that I worked with, seriously.
I remember, one time,
they sent me to Riverside.
And they tell me they
have a heroin case going.
As soon as I walked into
the apartment, on the coffee
table is a kilo of heroin.
These guys are sicarios, man.
I mean, I could tell
just by looking at them,
they're bad guys.
And when you're alone
with these guys,
and you can see they're
standing there with weapons,
you become very fearful.
But at the same time, you
have to not lose control.
You have to show them
you're still the boss.
You're still in control.
You've got the money.
You're calling the shots.
So they said, "Well, you're
the main guy, right?"
And I go, "Yep."
He says, there's your
heroin, right there.
I said OK, so I
started getting it.
He says, "No, no, no.
Where's the money?"
I says, "It's in the car.
We'll walk down, and I'll
give you the money."
They said, "No, we're not
going to do it like that.
"You bring the money up here.
We'll make the exchange
here in the apartment."
And I said, "Nope.
"I'm not going for that.
"Just because the
heroin's here doesn't
mean I have to trust you guys."
"I come in here with $250,000,"
I says, "you kill me, you cut
me up in little pieces, and you
"take the pieces of my flesh,
and you feed it to the pigs
down in Sinaloa."
I said, "No way, man.
We're not going to do that.
"You're going to
have to come down,
and we'll do the
exchange in the alley."
So he tells me,
"No fucking way.
Either we do it here,
or we don't have a deal."
"No way, forget about it.
"I don't give a shit
how you want to do it.
"We do it my way,
or we don't do shit.
"If you wanna be old ladies
with your little skirts...
"...and don't want to come
out here and be scared,
"that's your problem.
I'm ready to do business."
So I walked out.
Two minutes later,
here they come
with the heroin
in a gym bag.
The guy says,
"Here's the heroin."
And we're standing
there, and here comes
the cavalry
to make the arrest.
And the drug dealer goes,
"Manny, .
It's the dogs."
It means the cops.
And he pulls out his gun.
And I have
my hands occupied,
and I see he's going to shoot
at one of my surveillance guys.
So I dumped the heroin on
the ground, and I push him.
I pushed his arm, and the
gun goes up in the air.
I just pulled out
my gun, like this,
and I go, bam, bam, bam, bam,
bam, a whole bunch of times.
And he falls back on
one knee, and he's
still got the gun in his hand.
And I shoot him more
times, bam, bam, bam,
and then he finally falls.
And he looks up to me,
and he says,
"Manny, forgive me, please.
Forgive me."
And I felt so sorry for him,
and then his eyes rolled back,
and you can see
that glazed look.
He died.
I thought, wow, I wonder if he
still thought that I was Manny,
or if he knew I was a DEA
guy, and that I shot him.
And he was just saying
he was sorry because he
knew he was going to die.
It still bothers me
to this day.
It bothers me a lot.
Because I always
wondered, should I
have waited a little longer
before I pulled the trigger?
How's God looking at me?
Yeah, under men's law,
I did what I had to do,
but how is God looking at me?
Sometimes, I couldn't sleep.
You start questioning yourself.
But at the same, you have to
put this facade, this macho.
It's like, yeah,
man, I shot him.
He's dead. I'm glad
he's dead. Fuck the guy.
You know,
you're talking like that,
even though you don't mean it.
Because everybody is patting
your back and putting tequila
drinks in front of you.
And usually, you drink
all night, and you party,
and that's the
only way you can go to sleep.
That's the way
you cope with it,
and of course, you try
to act like, yeah, man,
I shot him like
10 times dude, you know?
Yeah, it was cool,
but it's all fake.
Around the year of 1983,
one of our commanders
asked if I could provide
protection at a party.
Upon arriving at the place,
it was the...
Aurora Ranch.
There were many armed people
and among them,
the commander introduced me to
Ernesto Rafael Fonseca Carrillo.
INTERVIEWER: And what did you
know about him?
Naturally, I knew he was...
that he was a Narco.
Everyone knew
who the Narcos were.
On another occasion,
the commander asked me
to handle an errand with him.
I was surprised
when he took me directly
to meet with the Narco
Rafael Caro Quintero,
for whom I began
body guarding loads.
Usually they were 18-wheelers
full of drugs.
It happened at
the Lebanese Club.
I started seeing
some of the people
from the DFS,
from the Mexican feds,
from the military police,
from the Jalisco State Police,
-from the 15th military zone...
-INTERVIEWER: Who else?
Rafael Caro Quintero, Ernesto
Fonseca Carrillo.
They were all introduced to me,
right there.
"This is Rafael Caro Quintero.
Don Ernesto,
here is the young man
you wanted to meet.
Jorge Godoy, this is Mr. Ernesto
Fonseca Carrillo.
They work for
the Interior Secretary.
You will be under their command,
do whatever they say.
You will be in armored vehicles,
Grand Marquis.
You will be with them.
You will have to show
your state police ID...
so they can pass
the checkpoints...
any checkpoint, police,
military, etc.
And you will be with him...
And you are responsible
for Fonseca...
and you can't
leave him unguarded."
There was a commander.
And we got along very well.
He asked me one day,
"Do you want to work as a driver
for a federal commander?"
I said, "Yes."
He said, "OK."
He introduced me to
Ernesto Fonseca.
When I arrived to meet
Ernesto Fonseca,
he was introduced to me
as a commander
of the federal police.
OK.
Well, he's a commander, right?
Ernesto and I started talking.
He told me,
"You'll be fine here."
"Here...
with me you'll be fine."
"Oh, thank you," I said.
After like a month...
I was seeing everything
that was going on,
what was happening there,
but I didn't dare to ask.
Then I saw...
Godoy.
Jorge Godoy was there.
I asked him,
"What are you doing here?"
He said,
"No, what are you doing here?"
I said, "Well, I'm here
with the commander."
He says, "Oh, sure, me too."
Then Godoy told me...
"No, you crazy fucker,
we aren't with a commander...
He's a narcotics trafficker.
And tomorrow we'll have a party
where you'll meet everyone."
Well, I was..
I started feeling bad, right?
The next day, they had
the party, a birthday party.
Well, Felix Gallardo arrived.
Caro Quintero arrived.
I mean, everyone,
all the big names.
That's when I met everyone.
And that's how I started...
my career as a bodyguard
for the Narcos.
PHIL JORDAN: Kiki picked
me up for lunch one day.
The whole time Kiki
and I were together,
we were always
under surveillance
by three or four guys.
And I said, Kiki, I mean,
there's three guys over there.
You can see their 45's.
What the hell is going on, man?
I mean, do I have to be careful?
He says, don't worry about it.
They're DFS, and they
work for the CIA.
I said, OK.
DFS, very selective
in its recruitment.
The creme de la creme got
into that organization.
But once you became
a DFS agent,
you were issued a credential,
and that credential let you
in anywhere and everywhere.
It was a powerful tool.
Several bad guys had
these DFS credentials,
including two of the
individuals who ran
the Guadalajara drug cartel--
Ernesto Fonseca Carrillo
and Rafael Caro Quintero.
There was no line of
distinction anymore
between bad guys and the DFS.
They were all the same thing.
This is what Kiki Camarena
had to face every day.
MIKA: It was very,
very difficult at the end.
I just had to learn to deal
with it, as best as I could.
Finally, I convinced Kiki
it's time for us to leave.
When Kiki got his
orders to San Diego,
he had a big, old
smile on his face.
He was so happy.
I hadn't seen him that
happy in a long time.
I wasn't smiling.
I was done.
I wasn't going to
smile until we left.
INTERVIEWER: When
were you due to leave?
Two weeks after
they kidnapped him.
INTERVIEWER: You were supposed
to leave two weeks later?
Two weeks after
they kidnapped him.
REPORTER 1: New worrisome
developments tonight in
the United States'
war on drugs.
REPORTER 2: The US government
is offering a $50,000 reward
for information
about the kidnapping
of an agent of the Drug
Enforcement Administration.
Enrique Camarena
was reportedly kidnapped
by four armed men
in Guadalajara, Mexico.
JACK LAWN: Eyewitness
accounts indicated
he was abducted by four
individuals, placed
forcibly in the
back of a vehicle,
and the vehicle fled the scene.
BERRELLEZ: I remember
being at a gym like 4:00, 4:30,
5:00 in the morning, working
out, when all of a sudden,
news comes on the screen.
I remember, I was running on
a treadmill, and I stopped.
I said, "Oh my God,
they've got Kiki."
In my heart, having
worked in Mexico,
I knew that
the traffickers alone
wouldn't do
something like that.
The traffickers do not do
anything without the protection
of the Mexican government.
I knew in my heart
that if the drug lords
ordered Kiki
picked up,
they weren't going to
do it themselves.
They were going to use
dirty cops to do it.
It was a Volkswagen Atlantic,
a small car.
And it was...
Samuel,
Torres Lepe,
Rene Verdugo
and me.
When Kiki comes out of
the consulate,
Rene Verdugo says,
"That's him."
Samuel gets out of the car
and tells me,
"Rene, come with me."
Samuel had him
on the right side.
He grabbed him by the right arm
and I by the left arm.
Then Samuel took out his gun
and put it here.
He told him, "Don't resist,
or I'll finish you right here."
"Alright," Kiki said.
He walked, he was calm.
I didn't feel like
he was afraid.
INTERVIEWER: And did you know
that he was going to die?